For the rest of this guide, you'll be working with a simple todo list manager that runs on Node.js. If you're not familiar with Node.js, don't worry. This guide doesn't require any prior experience with JavaScript.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/docker/getting-started-app.git

|-- getting-started-app/
| |- .dockerignore
| |- package.json
| |- README.md
| |- spec/
| |- src/
| |- yarn.lock
```

### Build the app's image
To build the image, you'll need to use a Dockerfile. A Dockerfile is simply a text-based file with no file extension that contains a script of instructions. Docker uses this script to build a container image.

In the `getting-started-app` directory, the same location as the `package.json` file, create a file named `Dockerfile`. You can use the following commands to create a `Dockerfile` based on your operating system.

```bash
cd /path/to/getting-started-app
touch Dockerfile
```
```dockerfile
# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1

FROM node:18-alpine
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN yarn install --production
CMD ["node", "src/index.js"]
EXPOSE 3000
```
```bash
cd /path/to/getting-started-app
docker build -t getting-started .
```
The `docker build` command uses the `Dockerfile` to build a new image. You might have noticed that Docker downloaded a lot of "layers". This is because you instructed the builder that you wanted to start from the `node:18-alpine` image. But, since you didn't have that on your machine, Docker needed to download the image.

After Docker downloaded the image, the instructions from the Dockerfile copied in your application and used `yarn` to install your application's dependencies. The `CMD` directive specifies the default command to run when starting a container from this image.

Finally, the `-t` flag tags your image. Think of this as a human-readable name for the final image. Since you named the image `getting-started`, you can refer to that image when you run a container.
The `.` at the end of the docker build command tells Docker that it should look for the `Dockerfile` in the current directory.

### Start an app container
```bash
docker run -dp 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 getting-started
```
The `-d` flag (short for `--detach`) runs the container in the background. This means that Docker starts your container and returns you to the terminal prompt. You can verify that a container is running by viewing it in Docker Dashboard under Containers, or by running `docker ps` in the terminal.

The `-p` flag (short for `--publish`) creates a port mapping between the host and the container. The `-p` flag takes a string value in the format of `HOST:CONTAINER`, where `HOST` is the address on the host, and CONTAINER is the port on the container. The command publishes the container's port `3000` to `127.0.0.1:3000` (`localhost:3000`) on the host. Without the port mapping, you wouldn't be able to access the application from the host.

```bash
http://localhost:3000
```

```bash
docker ps

CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                      NAMES
df784548666d        getting-started     "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago       Up 2 minutes        127.0.0.1:3000->3000/tcp   priceless_mcclintock
```