### Create a repository
To push an image, you first need to create a repository on `Docker Hub`.

1. `Sign up` or `Sign in` to `Docker Hub`.
2. Select the `Create Repository` button.
3. For the repository name, use `getting-started`. Make sure the `Visibility` is `Public`.

Select Create.


### Push the image
```bash
docker push YOUR-USER-NAME/getting-started.

docker push docker/getting-started
The push refers to repository [docker.io/docker/getting-started]
An image does not exist locally with the tag: docker/getting-started
```
Why did it fail? The push command was looking for an image named `docker/getting-started`, but didn't find one. If you run `docker image ls`, you won't see one either.
To fix this, you need to tag your existing image you've built to give it another name.


`Sign in` to Docker Hub using the command `docker login -u YOUR-USER-NAME`

Use the docker tag command to give the `getting-started` image a new name. Replace `YOUR-USER-NAME` with your Docker ID.
```bash
docker tag getting-started YOUR-USER-NAME/getting-started
```

Now run the `docker push` command again. If you're copying the value from Docker Hub, you can drop the `tagname` part, as you didn't add a tag to the image name. If you don't specify a tag, Docker uses a tag called `latest`.
```bash
docker push YOUR-USER-NAME/getting-started
```

### Run the image on a new instance
Now that your image has been built and pushed into a registry, try running your app on a brand new instance that has never seen this container image. To do this, you will use Play with Docker.

**Note** Play with Docker uses the amd64 platform. If you are using an ARM based Mac with Apple silicon, you will need to rebuild the image to be compatible with Play with Docker and push the new image to your repository.

To build an image for the amd64 platform, use the `--platform` flag.
```bash
docker build --platform linux/amd64 -t YOUR-USER-NAME/getting-started .
```

1. Open your browser to `Play with Docker`.
2. Select Login and then select docker from the drop-down list.
3. Sign in with your `Docker Hub account` and then select `Start`.
4. Select the `ADD NEW INSTANCE` option on the left side bar. If you don't see it, make your browser a little wider. After a few seconds, a terminal window opens in your browser.
5. In the terminal, start your freshly pushed app.

```bash
docker run -dp 0.0.0.0:3000:3000 YOUR-USER-NAME/getting-started
```


Note 
- You may have noticed that this command binds the port mapping to a different IP address. 
- Previous docker run commands published ports to `127.0.0.1:3000` on the host. This time, you're using `0.0.0.0`.
- Binding to `127.0.0.1` only exposes a container's ports to the loopback interface. 
- Binding to `0.0.0.0`, however, exposes the container's port on all interfaces of the host, making it available to the outside world.

