### The container's filesystem

To see this in action, you're going to start two containers. In one container, you'll create a file. In the other container, you'll verify the file exists. What you'll see is that the file created in one container isn't available in another.
```bash
docker run -ti --name=mytest alpine
```

In the container, create a `greeting.txt` file with `hello` inside.
```bash
echo "hello" > greeting.txt
```

Exit the container.
```bash
exit
```

Run a new Alpine container and use the cat command to verify that the file does not exist.
```bash
docker run alpine cat greeting.txt

cat: can't open 'greeting.txt': No such file or directory
```

Go ahead and remove the containers using `docker ps --all` to get the IDs, and then `docker rm -f <container-id>` to remove the containers.


### Container volumes
With the previous experiment, you saw that each container starts from the image definition each time it starts. While containers can create, update, and delete files, those changes are lost when you remove the container and Docker isolates all changes to that container. With `volumes`, you can change all of this.

`Volumes` provide the ability to connect specific filesystem paths of the container back to the host machine. If you mount a directory in the container, changes in that directory are also seen on the host machine. If you mount that same directory across container restarts, you'd see the same files.

There are two main types of `volumes`. You'll eventually use both, but you'll start with `volume mounts`.


### Persist the todo data
By default, the todo app stores its data in a `SQLite` database at` /etc/todos/todo.db` in the container's filesystem. If you're not familiar with `SQLite`, no worries! It's simply a relational database that stores all the data in a single file. While this isn't the best for large-scale applications, it works for small demos. You'll learn how to switch this to a different database engine later.

With the database being a single file, if you can persist that file on the host and make it available to the next container, it should be able to pick up where the last one left off. By creating a volume and attaching (often called "mounting") it to the directory where you stored the data, you can persist the data. As your container writes to the todo.db file, it will persist the data to the host in the volume.

As mentioned, you're going to use a volume mount. Think of a volume mount as an opaque bucket of data. Docker fully manages the volume, including the storage location on disk. You only need to remember the name of the volume.


#### Create a volume and start the container
You can create the volume and start the container using the CLI or Docker Desktop's graphical interface.


Create a volume by using the `docker volume create` command.
```bash
docker volume create todo-db
```

Stop and remove the todo app container once again with `docker rm -f <id>`, as it is still running without using the `persistent volume`.

Start the todo app container, but add the `--mount` option to specify a volume mount. Give the volume a name, and mount it to `/etc/todos` in the container, which captures all files created at the path.
```bash
docker run -dp 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 --mount type=volume,src=todo-db,target=/etc/todos getting-started
```


**Note** If you're using Git Bash, you must use different syntax for this command.
```bash
docker run -dp 127.0.0.1:3000:3000 --mount type=volume,src=todo-db,target=//etc/todos getting-started
```


### Verify that the data persists
1. Once the container starts up, open the app and add a few items to your todo list.
2. Stop and remove the container for the todo app. Use Docker Desktop or `docker ps` to get the ID and then `docker rm -f <id>` to remove it.
3. Start a new container using the previous steps.
4. Open the app. You should see your items still in your list.
5. Go ahead and remove the container when you're done checking out your list.


### Dive into the volume
A lot of people frequently ask "`Where is Docker storing my data when I use a volume?`" If you want to know, you can use the `docker volume inspect` command.

```bash
docker volume inspect todo-db
[
    {
        "CreatedAt": "2019-09-26T02:18:36Z",
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/todo-db/_data",
        "Name": "todo-db",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

The `Mountpoint` is the actual location of the data on the disk. Note that on most machines, you will need to have root access to access this directory from the host.

