## Explanation
A `Dockerfile` is a text-based document that's used to `create a container image`. It `provides instructions` to the image builder on the commands to run, files to copy, startup command, and more.

As an example, the following `Dockerfile` would produce a ready-to-run Python application:
```dockerfile
FROM python:3.12
WORKDIR /usr/local/app

# Install the application dependencies
COPY requirements.txt ./
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt

# Copy in the source code
COPY src ./src
EXPOSE 5000

# Setup an app user so the container doesn't run as the root user
RUN useradd app
USER app

CMD ["uvicorn", "app.main:app", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "8080"]
```

### Common instructions
Some of the most common instructions in a Dockerfile include:

- **FROM** [image] - this specifies the base image that the build will extend.
- **WORKDIR** [path] - this instruction specifies the "working directory" or the path in the image where files will be copied and commands will be executed.
- **COPY** [host-path] [image-path] - this instruction tells the builder to copy files from the host and put them into the container image.
- **RUN** [command] - this instruction tells the builder to run the specified command.
- **ENV** [name] [value] - this instruction sets an environment variable that a running container will use.
- **EXPOSE** [port-number] - this instruction sets configuration on the image that indicates a port the image would like to expose.
- **USER** <user-or-uid> - this instruction sets the default user for all subsequent instructions.
- **CMD** ["command", "arg1"] - this instruction sets the default command a container using this image will run.


## Try Out
NodeJS App
```dockerfile
# Define your base image by adding the following line
FROM node:20-alpine

# Now, define the working directory by using the WORKDIR instruction. This will specify where future commands will run and the directory files will be copied inside the container image.
WORKDIR /app

# Copy all of the files from your project on your machine into the container image by using the COPY instruction:
COPY . .

# Install the app's dependencies by using the yarn CLI and package manager. To do so, run a command using the RUN instruction:
RUN yarn install --production

# Finally, specify the default command to run by using the CMD instruction:
CMD ["node", "./src/index.js"]
```


> This Dockerfile isn't production-ready yet
It's important to note that this Dockerfile is not following all of the best practices yet (by design). It will build the app, but the builds won't be as fast, or the images as secure, as they could be.
Keep reading to learn more about how to make the image maximize the build cache, run as a non-root user, and multi-stage builds.

> Containerize new projects quickly with `docker init`
The `docker init` command will analyze your project and quickly create a Dockerfile, a compose.yaml, and a .dockerignore, helping you get up and going. Since you're learning about Dockerfiles specifically here, you won't use it now.